Exec 2023-08-18 (#2410)
makerdao/community: governance/votes/Executive vote - August 18, 2023.md

summary: Reduce the DSR per the EDSR update, update multiple vault parameters, update the Smart Burn Engine parameters, complete offboarding of CRVV1ETHSTETH-A, Aligned Delegate compensation for July 2023, DAO Resolution for BlockTower Andromeda, transfer remaining admin controls to the Spark Proxy, execute Spark proxy spell.
date: 2023-08-18T00:00:00.000Z
address: "$spell_address"

---
# [Executive Proposal] EDSR Adjustment, Vault and Smart Burn Engine Parameter Updates, CRVV1ETHSTETH-A Offboarding, Delegate Compensation, Transfer Spark Protocol Admin Controls - August 18, 2023

The Governance Facilitators, Sidestream, Dewiz, and Phoenix Labs have placed an executive proposal into the voting system. MKR Holders should vote for this proposal if they support the following alterations to the Maker Protocol.

If you are new to voting in the Maker Protocol, please see the [voting guide](https://manual.makerdao.com/governance/voting-in-makerdao/on-chain-governance) to learn how voting works.

---

> ## Executive Summary

Author: added

- Housekeeping parameter updates to the old Compound and Aave Direct Deposit Modules will take place, as detailed below.
- Parameter updates to the New Silver (RWA002-A) vault will be made, as detailed below.
- Admin control over the remaining Spark Protocol contracts will be transferred to the Spark Proxy, as detailed below.
- A proxy spell for Spark Protocol will be triggered, as detailed below.

**Voting for this executive proposal will place your MKR in support of the changes and additions outlined above.**

Unless otherwise noted, the changes and additions listed above are subject to the [GSM Pause Delay](https://manual.makerdao.com/parameter-index/core/param-gsm-pause-delay). This means that if this executive proposal passes, the changes and additions listed above will only become active in the Maker Protocol after the GSM Pause Delay has expired. The GSM Pause Delay is currently set to **48 hours**.

If this executive proposal does not pass within 30 days, then it will expire and can no longer have any effect on the Maker Protocol.

---

## Proposal Details

### [Dai Savings Rate (DSR)](https://manual.makerdao.com/parameter-index/core/param-dai-savings-rate) Update

> As per this successful governance [poll](TBD), the DSR will be reduced as per the latest updates to the [Enhanced Dai Savings Rate (EDSR)](https://mips.makerdao.com/mips/details/MIP104#3-2-2-enhanced-dai-savings-rate-edsr-) in the Stability Scope as follows, if this executive proposal passes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As per this successful governance [poll](https://vote.makerdao.com/polling/QmaAtZ3i), the DSR will be reduced as per the latest updates to the [Enhanced Dai Savings Rate (EDSR)](https://mips.makerdao.com/mips/details/MIP104#3-2-2-enhanced-dai-savings-rate-edsr-) in the Stability Scope as follows, if this executive proposal passes.
```

- Reduce the DSR by 3% from 8% to **5%**.

Please review the forum [thread](https://forum.makerdao.com/t/request-for-gov12-1-2-edit-to-the-stability-scope-to-quickly-modify-enhanced-dsr-based-on-observed-data/21581) to inform your position before voting.

> ### EDSR-Related [Stability Fee](https://manual.makerdao.com/parameter-index/vault-risk/param-stability-fee) Updates

Reviewer: Spreadsheet says DSR-related not EDSR-related. See other related comment below on ETH-A, ETH-B and ETH-C vaults

Author: yes changed it back to DSR-Related

> As per this successful governance [poll](TBD), the following Stability Fee Updates will be made, as per the instructions for the [Enhanced Dai Savings Rate (EDSR)](https://mips.makerdao.com/mips/details/MIP104#3-2-2-enhanced-dai-savings-rate-edsr-) in the Stability Scope, if this executive proposal passes.

Reviewer: Slightly confusing because in MIP104, it says "Other parameters and mechanisms that are dependent on the DSR, such as certain stability fees, are not affected by the EDSR, but only by the underlying DSR"

> As per this successful governance [poll](TBD), the following Stability Fee Updates will be made, as per the instructions for the [Enhanced Dai Savings Rate (EDSR)](https://mips.makerdao.com/mips/details/MIP104#3-2-2-enhanced-dai-savings-rate-edsr-) in the Stability Scope, if this executive proposal passes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As per this successful governance [poll](https://vote.makerdao.com/polling/QmaAtZ3i), the following Stability Fee Updates will be made, as per the instructions for the [Enhanced Dai Savings Rate (EDSR)](https://mips.makerdao.com/mips/details/MIP104#3-2-2-enhanced-dai-savings-rate-edsr-) in the Stability Scope, if this executive proposal passes.
```

> As per this successful governance [poll](TBD), the following Stability Fee Updates will be made, as per the instructions for the [Enhanced Dai Savings Rate (EDSR)](https://mips.makerdao.com/mips/details/MIP104#3-2-2-enhanced-dai-savings-rate-edsr-) in the Stability Scope, if this executive proposal passes.

Reviewer: When adding the link, note that https://vote.makerdao.com/polling/QmaAtZ3i only deals with EDSR changes, not the vanilla DSR increase.

Author: The EDSR changes do specify the ETH vault changes in the Scope. I've added a note underneath to clarify that.

- Increase ETH-A Stability Fee by 0.14% from 3.44% to **3.58%**.
- Increase ETH-B Stability Fee by 0.14% from 3.94%% to **4.08%**.

> - Increase ETH-C Stability Fee by 0.14% from 3.19% to **3.33%**.

Reviewer: "ETH-A, ETH-B and ETH-C do not have their borrow rates affected by the EDSR, instead their borrow rates continue to be based on the regular DSR" according to the updated wording of the EDSR.

- Increase WBTC-A Stability Fee by 0.11% from 5.69% to **5.80%**.
- Increase WBTC-B Stability Fee by 0.11% from 6.19% to **6.30%**.
- Increase WBTC-C Stability Fee by 0.11% from 5.44% to **5.55%**.

Please review the forum [thread](https://forum.makerdao.com/t/request-for-gov12-1-2-edit-to-the-stability-scope-to-quickly-modify-enhanced-dsr-based-on-observed-data/21581) to inform your position before voting.

### Smart Burn Engine Parameter Updates

Per this successful governance [poll](https://vote.makerdao.com/polling/QmTRJNNH), the following parameter updates to the Smart Burn Engine will occur if this executive proposal passes.

- Increase [Smart Burn Engine Cooldown (`hop`)](https://manual.makerdao.com/parameter-index/smart-burn-engine/param-surplus-cooldown) by 4,731 seconds from 1,577 seconds to **6,308 seconds**.
- Increase [Smart Burn Engine Lot Size (`bump`)](https://manual.makerdao.com/parameter-index/smart-burn-engine/param-surplus-lot-size) by 15,000 DAI from 5,000 DAI to **20,000 DAI**.

Please review the forum [thread](https://forum.makerdao.com/t/smart-burn-engine-parameters-update-1/21545) to inform your position before voting.

> ### Non-EDSR Related Parameter changes

Reviewer: Non-DSR on spreadsheet title

- Increase WSTETH-B [Maximum Debt Ceiling (`line`)](https://manual.makerdao.com/module-index/module-dciam#maximum-debt-ceiling-line) by 500 million DAi from 500 million DAI to **1 billion DAI**.
- Increase WSTETH-B [Target Available Debt (`gap`)](https://manual.makerdao.com/module-index/module-dciam#target-available-debt-gap) by 15 million DAI from 30 million DAI to **45 million DAI**.
- Reduce WSTETH-B [Ceiling Increase Cooldown (`ttl`)](https://manual.makerdao.com/module-index/module-dciam#ceiling-increase-cooldown-ttl) by 14,400 seconds from 57,600 seconds to **43,200 seconds (12 hours)**.
- Increase RETH-A [Maximum Debt Ceiling (`line`)](https://manual.makerdao.com/module-index/module-dciam#maximum-debt-ceiling-line) by 25 million DAI from 50 million DAI to **75 million DAI**.

Please review the forum threads ([1](https://forum.makerdao.com/t/stability-scope-parameter-changes-4/21567), [2](https://forum.makerdao.com/t/non-scope-defined-parameter-changes-wsteth-b-dc-iam/21568)) to inform your position before voting.

### CRVV1ETHSTETH-A Second Stage Offboarding

> As per the instructions in the [Stability Scope](https://mips.makerdao.com/mips/details/MIP104#14-3-native-vault-engine), the offboarding of CRVV1ETHSTETH-A will be completed by enacting the following parameter changes, if this executive proposal passes.

Reviewer 2: Maybe use https://mips.makerdao.com/mips/details/MIP104#14-3-12 instead?

Author: updated

- Reduce [Liquidation Penalty (`chop`)](https://manual.makerdao.com/parameter-index/vault-risk/param-liquidation-penalty) by 13% from 13% to **0%**.
- Reduce [Flat Kick Incentive (`tip`)](https://manual.makerdao.com/parameter-index/collateral-auction/param-flat-kick-incentive) by 250 DAI from 250 DAI to **0 DAI**.
- Reduce [Proportional Kick Incentive (`chip`)](https://manual.makerdao.com/parameter-index/collateral-auction/param-proportional-kick-incentive) by 0.1% from 0.1% to **0%**.
- Increase [Liquidation Ratio (`mat`)](https://manual.makerdao.com/parameter-index/vault-risk/param-liquidation-ratio) by 9,845% from 155% to **10,000%**.
- For completeness, the [Global Debt Ceiling (`Line`)](https://manual.makerdao.com/parameter-index/core/param-global-debt-ceiling) will be reduced by 100 million DAI as part of the offboarding process for this collateral.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Please review the forum [thread](https://forum.makerdao.com/t/stability-scope-parameter-changes-3/21238#crvv1ethsteth-a-proposed-offboarding-11) to inform your position before voting.
```

| Cloaky | [0x869b6d5d8FA7f4FFdaCA4D23FFE0735c5eD1F818](https://etherscan.io/address/0x869b6d5d8FA7f4FFdaCA4D23FFE0735c5eD1F818) | 4.30 |
| Skynet | [0xd4d1A446cD5976a11bd32D3e815A9F85FED2F9F3](https://etherscan.io/address/0xd4d1A446cD5976a11bd32D3e815A9F85FED2F9F3) | 3.64 |

### Direct Deposit Module (D3M) Parameter Housekeeping

As per this [forum post](https://forum.makerdao.com/t/notice-of-executive-vote-date-change-and-housekeeping-changes/21613), the following housekeeping changes to the now defunct D3Ms will be made if this executive proposal passes.

#### Aave D3M

- Remove DIRECT-AAVEV2-DAI from the [DC-IAM (autoline)](https://manual.makerdao.com/module-index/module-dciam).
- Set the DIRECT-AAVEV2-DAI [Debt Ceiling](https://manual.makerdao.com/parameter-index/vault-risk/param-debt-ceiling) to **0 DAI**.

#### Compound D3M

- Remove DIRECT-COMPV2-DAI from the [DC-IAM (autoline)](https://manual.makerdao.com/module-index/module-dciam).
- Set the DIRECT-COMPV2-DAI [Debt Ceiling](https://manual.makerdao.com/parameter-index/vault-risk/param-debt-ceiling) to **0 DAI**.

> For completeness, the [Global Debt Ceiling (`Line`)](https://manual.makerdao.com/parameter-index/core/param-global-debt-ceiling) will be reduced by as part of this process to account for the removal of the Debt Ceiling of these collaterals.

Reviewer: Missing amount the Global DC is reduced by

Author: intentional because it's being calculated as part of the spell code

### New Silver (RWA002-A) Parameter Changes

As per this successful governance [poll](https://vote.makerdao.com/polling/QmaU1eaD) and the execution of the updated `doc` parameter in the preceding spell, the following parameter changes to the New Silver (RWA002-A) vault will be made, if this executive proposal passes.

- Increase RWA002-A Debt Ceiling by 30 million DAI from 20 million DAI to **50 million DAI**.
- Increase RWA002-A Stability Fee by 3.5% from 3.5% to **7%**.

> - Reduce Liquidation Ratio by 5% from 105% to **100%**.

Reviewer 2: Why are we reducing the LR?

- Bump the Oracle Price to **92,899,356 DAI** (rounded value, see technical note below).

*Technical Note:* the increase in the Oracle Price is required to account for borrowing and accumulated Stability Fees throughout the loan term. Per the Legal Agreement, the loan term runs until 2032-10-11. At the smart contract level, the Oracle Price will be internally set to `92899355926924134500000000`.

> Please see the [proposal thread](https://forum.makerdao.com/t/rwa-002-new-silver-restructuring-risk-and-legal-assessment/21417) before voting.

Reviewer: https://forum.makerdao.com/t/notice-of-executive-vote-date-change-and-housekeeping-changes/21613#rwa002-a-liquidation-ratio-update-3 containts the liquidation ratio change - add link?

Reviewer 2: Ah, here it is. Disregard previous comment

Author: added a note

2. A Settlement Account with StoneX Group Inc. (“StoneX Settlement Account”), whereby:
a. Incoming funds from an Exchange Agent may be directed to the purchase of identified assets.
b. Assets purchased shall be custodied with StoneX Group Inc. acting as Broker and Pershing LLC. acting as Custodian.
c. Distribution and proceeds from the sale of any assets shall be settled in the StoneX Settlement Account.

3. A Settlement Account with Computershare Ltd. (“Computershare Settlement Account”), whereby:
a. Incoming funds from an Exchange Agent may be directed to the purchase of identified assets.
b. Assets purchased may be custodied with Computershare Ltd. acting as Custodian.
c. Distribution and proceeds from the sale of any assets shall be settled in the Computershare Settlement Account
```

An IPFS hash of this DAO Resolution is `QmUNrCwKK2iK2ki5Spn97jrTCDKqFjDZWKk3wxQ2psgMP5` and a pinned version can be viewed [here](https://ipfs.io/ipfs/QmUNrCwKK2iK2ki5Spn97jrTCDKqFjDZWKk3wxQ2psgMP5).

### Transfer Spark Protocol Admin Controls

> As per this governance [poll](https://vote.makerdao.com/polling/Qmc9fd3j) use of a Spark Proxy has been approved by Maker Governance. Admin control over the remaining contracts (listed below) will be transferred to the Spark Proxy if this executive proposal passes.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As per this governance [poll](https://vote.makerdao.com/polling/Qmc9fd3j), use of a Spark Proxy has been approved by Maker Governance. Admin control over the remaining contracts (listed below) will be transferred to the Spark Proxy if this executive proposal passes.
```
